Brother Jean-Marcocca is one of many of Jehovah's Witnesses in Angola who faced cruel persecution because of their faith.
And during the decades of the 1940s until the 1970s, Brother Marcocca endured prison, penal colonies, and much torture as well as separation from his family.
Despite this, he never stopped strengthening himself and others.
My father, Adawa Gostinho, was arrested in the early 1970s.
And in prison, who did he find?
Brother Marcocca and other brothers who also had faced cruel persecution for a long time.
Brother Marcocca was a mentor to my father, so every night he would go by Brother Marcocca's bed and ask him many questions about the Bible.
In his memoirs, my father wrote something very interesting.
He was very impatient with me. I took with me a wealth of knowledge that helped me in the trials that followed.
Today, I cannot imagine what my life would be like without this inheritance that was passed down by those loyal brothers.
My father, Silvesse Mal, in Brother Jean-Marcocca, saved together on the Angola branch committee, but that was not where they met.
When my father attended his first meeting as a Bible student, Brother Marcocca was conducting the Wajta study.
Suddenly, the meeting place was raided, and Brother Marcocca became concerned because a good number of those in attendance were Bible students, including my father.
Brother Marcocca asked that they release the students, but that did not happen.
They beat them up. They beat them up brutally, all the men that were there.
In fact, my dad said he thought that he was going to die on that day because the beating was so brutal and he lost a lot of blood.
In the face of this situation, Brother Marcocca was concerned. He said a sincere prayer for Jehovah to protect his sheep.
And that was what happened. Jehovah protected them. My dad could see that Brother Marcocca was more concerned with them than he was with himself.
Brother Marcocca also had the opportunity to help others to get to know the truth.
And one of them is my uncle, Philip Kunia. He was in that jail as a political prisoner, and he learned the truth.
And as a result, four generations of our family today are Jehovah's Witnesses.
The situation of Brother Marcocca and other brothers who faced persecution here in Angola proves that with Jehovah's help,
we can face persecution. When a person does not have patience, he cannot persevere because he is looking at the time when the trial will end.
On the other hand, patience helped the brothers to deal with trials, focusing on what they could do and on Jehovah's help.